docs/gs-elpa.8.rst, before:

=======
gs-elpa
=======

-------------------------------------
manage overlays for ELPA repositories
-------------------------------------

:Author: Written by Jauhien Piatlicki <jauhien@gentoo.org>. GSoC idea
	 and mentorship by Rafael Martins. Lots of help and improvements
	 by Brian Dolbec.
:Date:   2015-04-20
:Copyright: Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Jauhien Piatlicki, License: GPL-2
:Version: 0.2
:Manual section: 8
:Manual group: g-sorcery


SYNOPSIS
========

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **sync**

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **list**

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **generate** *PACKAGE*

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **install** *PACKAGE*

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **generate-tree** [**-d**]

DESCRIPTION
===========

**gs-elpa** is an ebuild generator for ELPA repositories -- repositories with
elisp packages for emacs.

There are two ways of using **gs-elpa**:

    * use it with **layman**

      In this case all you need to do is install **gs-elpa**.
      Then you should just run `layman -L` as
      root and find an overlay you want. Type of overlay will be
      displayed as *g-sorcery*. Then you add this overlay as
      usual. It's all you need to do and it's the recommended way of
      using **gs-elpa**.

    * use it as stand-alone tool

      In this case you should create an overlay (see **portage** documentation), sync it and populate
      it with one or more ebuilds. Then ebuilds could be installed by emerge or by **gs-elpa** tool.


OPTIONS
=======

**--overlay** *OVERLAY*, **-o** *OVERLAY*
    Overlay directory. This option is mandatory if there is no
    **default_overlay** entry in a backend config.

**--repository** *REPO*, **-r** *REPO*
    Repository name. Can be one of **gnu-elpa**, **marmalade**,
    **melpa**, **melpa-stable**.

COMMANDS
========

**sync**
    Synchronize a repository database.

**list**
    List packages available in a repository.

**generate**
    Generate a given ebuild and all its dependencies.

**install**
    Generate and install an ebuild using your package mangler.

**generate-tree**
    Generate entire overlay structure. Without option **-d** after
    this command sources are not fetched during generation and there
    are no entries for them in Manifest files.

FILES
=====
**/etc/g-sorcery/gs-elpa.json**
    Backend config.

**/etc/layman/overlays/gs-elpa-overlays.xml**
    List of available repositories.

EXAMPLES
========

Using gs-elpa with layman
    Execute

    **layman -L**

    Find there an overlay you need (there are
    3 gs-elpa overlays currently: gnu-elpa, marmalade, melpa and melpa-stable).
    Add, e.g.

    **layman -a gnu-elpa -a marmalade**

    Emerge any package from it, e.g.

    **emerge -va clojure-mode**

Generating ebuilds for packages that are already in the tree
    Ebuilds for the packages available in the tree are excluded from
    the generation. To enable their generation you need to edit
    **/etc/g-sorcery/gs-elpa.json** file: remove packages you need
    from the *exclude* list in the *common_config* inside this config file.

Generating user ebuilds in user overlay
    Create new user overlay. Run

    **gs-elpa -o** *OVERLAY_DIRECTORY* **-r gnu-elpa** **sync**

    List packages:

    **gs-elpa -o** *OVERLAY_DIRECTORY* **-r gnu-elpa** **list**

    Install any package you want:

    **gs-elpa -o** *OVERLAY_DIRECTORY* **-r gnu-elpa** **install** *PACKAGE*

    Repositories you can use are gnu-elpa, marmalade, melpa and melpa-stable. You can use them
    all in one overlay. Note, that if you call **generate-tree** command your overlay
    will be wiped and overlay tree for a given repository will be generated. Be careful!

NOTES
=====

1. At the moment the only package mangler **gs-elpa** supports is **portage**.

BUGS
====

Some packages in **marmalade** , **melpa**, **melpa-stable** depend on packages from gnu-elpa. **install** and **generate**
commands will fail on them as dependencies between overlays are not supported currently. So the
recommended way of using gs-elpa is using it with layman. Even doing so you should always add
gnu-elpa repository: **layman -a gnu-elpa**.

SEE ALSO
========

**gs-pypi**\(8), **g-sorcery.cfg**\(8), **portage**\(5), **emerge**\(1), **layman**\(8)

Commit message:

[docs, config] temporary fix for issue #6

docs/gs-elpa.8.rst, after:

=======
gs-elpa
=======

-------------------------------------
manage overlays for ELPA repositories
-------------------------------------

:Author: Written by Jauhien Piatlicki <jauhien@gentoo.org>. GSoC idea
	 and mentorship by Rafael Martins. Lots of help and improvements
	 by Brian Dolbec.
:Date:   2015-04-20
:Copyright: Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Jauhien Piatlicki, License: GPL-2
:Version: 0.2
:Manual section: 8
:Manual group: g-sorcery


SYNOPSIS
========

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **sync**

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **list**

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **generate** *PACKAGE*

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **install** *PACKAGE*

**gs-elpa** **-o** *OVERLAY* [**-r** *REPO*] **generate-tree** [**-d**]

DESCRIPTION
===========

**gs-elpa** is an ebuild generator for ELPA repositories -- repositories with
elisp packages for emacs.

There are two ways of using **gs-elpa**:

    * use it with **layman**

      In this case all you need to do is install **gs-elpa**.
      Then you should just run `layman -L` as
      root and find an overlay you want. Type of overlay will be
      displayed as *g-sorcery*. Then you add this overlay as
      usual. It's all you need to do and it's the recommended way of
      using **gs-elpa**.

    * use it as stand-alone tool

      In this case you should create an overlay (see **portage** documentation), sync it and populate
      it with one or more ebuilds. Then ebuilds could be installed by emerge or by **gs-elpa** tool.


OPTIONS
=======

**--overlay** *OVERLAY*, **-o** *OVERLAY*
    Overlay directory. This option is mandatory if there is no
    **default_overlay** entry in a backend config.

**--repository** *REPO*, **-r** *REPO*
    Repository name. Can be one of **gnu-elpa**, **marmalade**,
    **melpa**, **melpa-stable**.

COMMANDS
========

**sync**
    Synchronize a repository database.

**list**
    List packages available in a repository.

**generate**
    Generate a given ebuild and all its dependencies.

**install**
    Generate and install an ebuild using your package mangler.

**generate-tree**
    Generate entire overlay structure. Without option **-d** after
    this command sources are not fetched during generation and there
    are no entries for them in Manifest files.

FILES
=====
**/etc/g-sorcery/gs-elpa.json**
    Backend config.

**/etc/layman/overlays/gs-elpa-overlays.xml**
    List of available repositories.

EXAMPLES
========

Using gs-elpa with layman
    Execute

    **layman -L**

    Find there an overlay you need (there are
    3 gs-elpa overlays currently: gnu-elpa, marmalade, melpa and melpa-stable).
    Add, e.g.

    **layman -a gnu-elpa -a marmalade**

    Emerge any package from it, e.g.

    **emerge -va clojure-mode**

Generating ebuilds for packages that are already in the tree
    Ebuilds for the packages available in the tree are excluded from
    the generation. To enable their generation you need to edit
    **/etc/g-sorcery/gs-elpa.json** file: remove packages you need
    from the *exclude* list in the *common_config* inside this config file.

Generating user ebuilds in user overlay
    Create new user overlay. Run

    **gs-elpa -o** *OVERLAY_DIRECTORY* **-r gnu-elpa** **sync**

    List packages:

    **gs-elpa -o** *OVERLAY_DIRECTORY* **-r gnu-elpa** **list**

    Install any package you want:

    **gs-elpa -o** *OVERLAY_DIRECTORY* **-r gnu-elpa** **install** *PACKAGE*

    Repositories you can use are gnu-elpa, marmalade, melpa and melpa-stable. You can use them
    all in one overlay. Note, that if you call **generate-tree** command your overlay
    will be wiped and overlay tree for a given repository will be generated. Be careful!

NOTES
=====

1. At the moment the only package mangler **gs-elpa** supports is **portage**.

BUGS
====

Some packages in **marmalade** , **melpa**, **melpa-stable** depend on packages from gnu-elpa. **install** and **generate**
commands will fail on them as dependencies between overlays are not supported currently. So the
recommended way of using gs-elpa is using it with layman. Even doing so you should always add
gnu-elpa repository: **layman -a gnu-elpa**.

If you ever find bugs like https://github.com/jauhien/gs-elpa/issues/6,
you can exclude packages from dependencies adding their name to the "external" object
in the "common-config" section of `/etc/g-sorcery/gs-elpa.json` config file.
For the example issue it would be (together with already added packages):

	"external": {"emacs": "virtual/emacs", "cl-lib": "virtual/emacs", "eieio": "virtual/emacs"}

SEE ALSO
========

**gs-pypi**\(8), **g-sorcery.cfg**\(8), **portage**\(5), **emerge**\(1), **layman**\(8)
